doc/developerGuide/software/network.rst, before:

#######
Network 
#######

***********
Quick setup
***********

.. note:: A reboot is required to switch between access point and client modes.

===========
WiFi client
===========

List wireless access pints:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # iwlist scan

Write a ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` configuration file to the FAT partition:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # rw
   $ wpa_passphrase <ssid> [passphrase] > /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

Restart wpa supplicant:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    # systemctl restart wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.service

=================
WiFi access point
=================

Write a `hostapd.conf <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/plain/hostapd/hostapd.conf>`_ configuration file to the FAT partition,
and remove the ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` client configuration file if exists:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # rw
   $ nano /opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf
   $ rm /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

Restart access point service:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # systemctl restart hostapd@wlan0wext.service

*********************
Network configuration
*********************

The current network configuration is using 
`systemd-networkd <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.network.html>`_ as the base. Almost all
network configuration details are done by the bash script 
`network.sh <https://github.com/RedPitaya/RedPitaya/blob/master/OS/debian/network.sh>`_ during the creation of the 
Debian/Ubuntu SD card image. The script installs networking related packages and copies network configuration files 
from the Git repository.

The decision to focus on ``systemd-networkd`` is arbitrary, while at the same time
focusing at a single approach centered around `systemd <https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/>`_
should minimize the efforts needed to maintain it.

Most of the WiFi configuration complexity comes from two sources:

    1. mixing WiFi drivers based on new `mac80211 <https://wireless.wiki.kernel.org/en/developers/documentation/mac80211>`_ API,
       and the old deprecated `wext <https://wireless.wiki.kernel.org/en/developers/documentation/wireless-extensions>`_ API,
       this also requires some duplication of user space tools
    2. support for switching between WiFi access point and client mode

====
UDEV
====

``systemd`` provides [predictable network interface names] using `UDEV <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/udev.html>`_ rules.
In our case the kernel names the USB WiFi adapter ``wlan0``, then ``UDEV`` rule ``/lib/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules``
renames it into ``enx{MAC}`` using the following rule:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # Use MAC based names for network interfaces which are directly or indirectly
   # on USB and have an universally administered (stable) MAC address (second bit
   # is 0).
   
   IMPORT{cmdline}="net.ifnames", ENV{net.ifnames}=="0", GOTO="usb_net_by_mac_end"
   PROGRAM="/bin/readlink /etc/udev/rules.d/80-net-setup-link.rules", RESULT=="/dev/null", GOTO="usb_net_by_mac_end"
   
   ACTION=="add", SUBSYSTEM=="net", SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", NAME=="", \
       ATTR{address}=="?[014589cd]:*", \
       IMPORT{builtin}="net_id", NAME="$env{ID_NET_NAME_MAC}"
   
   LABEL="usb_net_by_mac_end"

For a simple generic WiFi configuration it is preferred to have the same
interface name regardless of the used adapter. This is achieved by overriding
``UDEV`` rules with a modified rule file. The overriding is done by placing the
modified rule file into directory ``/etc/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules``.
Since the remaining rules in the file are not relevant on Red Pitaya, it is also
possible to deactivate the rule by creating a override file which links to ``/dev/null``.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -s /dev/null /etc/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules

For user space tools to be able to distinguish between adapters using old and new drivers,
adapeter interfaces using the ``rtl8192cu`` are renamed into ``wlan0wext`` while adapter
interfaces using other drivers keep the default name ``wlan0``. This is achieved using
`systemd.link  <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.link.html>`_ file
`/etc/systemd/network/10-wireless.link <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/10-wireless.link>`_.

===========
Wired setup
===========

The wired interface ``eth0`` configuration file `/etc/systemd/network/wired.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wired.network>`_
configures it to use DHCP.

In previous releases, where a `different DHCP client was used <http://linux.die.net/man/8/dhclient>`_,
it was possible to define a fixed lease, which would provide a fallback address
if DHCP fails. Using the ``systemd`` integrated DHCP client this is not possible,
instead a fixed address can be set, or Link Local addressing zeroconf can be
used (described later).

A static IP address can be chosen by modifying the configuration file. It is
also possible to have both a DHCP provided and a static address at the same time,
but this is not a good choice for the release default since it can cause IP address collisions.
A fixed IP address can be configured by adding the next lines to
`systemd.network  <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.network.html>`_ files.

.. code-block:: none

   [Network]
   Address=192.168.0.15/24
   Gateway=192.168.0.1

==============
Wireless setup
==============

The wireless interface ``wlan0`` configuration file is `/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network>`_.

To support two modes this file must be linked to either the client mode configuration
`/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.client <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.client>`_
or the access point configuration
`/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.ap <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.ap>`_.
Switching between the two option is implemented by
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-ap.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-ap.service>`_
and
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-client.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-client.service>`_
which must be run early at boot before most other network related services are run.
If no wireless configuration file is available, then a third service
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless_adapter_up@.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless_adapter_up@.service>`_
will link ``wireless.network`` to client mode, and it will power up the adapter so that ``iwlist`` will work.

The choice of the interface is driven by the availability of access point ``/opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf``
and client ``/opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf`` configuration files.
If ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` is present, client mode configuration will be attempted,
regardless of the presence of ``hostapd.conf``.
If only ``hostapd.conf`` is present access point configuration will be attempted.
If no configuration file is present, WiFi will not be configured.

+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| file                  | comment                      |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| `wpa_supplicant.conf` | client configuration         |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| `hostapd.conf`        | access point configuration   |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+

---------------------
Wireless client setup
---------------------

Wireless networks almost universally use some king of encryption/authentication scheme for security.
This is handled by the tool `wpa_supplicant <https://w1.fi/wpa_supplicant/>`_.
The default network configuration option on
`Debian NetworkManager <https://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager>`_ /
`Ubuntu NetworkManager <https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager>`_
is `NetworkManager  <https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/NetworkManager>`_.
Sometimes it conflicts with the default ``systemd-networkd`` install, this seems to be one
of those cases. On `Debian <https://packages.debian.org/jessie/armhf/wpasupplicant/filelist>`_ / Ubuntu
a device `specific @.service <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/tree/wpa_supplicant/systemd/wpa_supplicant.service.arg.in>`_
service is missing, so we made a copy `copy of wpa_supplicant@.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant@.service>`_
in our Git repository.

By default the service is installed as a dependency for ``multi-user.target``
which means it would delay ``multi-user.target`` if it could not start properly,
for example due to the USB WiFi adapter not being plugged in. At the same time
the service was not automatically started after the adapter was plugged into
Red Pitaya. The next change fixes both.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    [Install]
   -Alias=multi-user.target.wants/wpa_supplicant@%i.service
   +WantedBy=sys-subsystem-net-devices-%i.device

Since WiFi drivers using two different APIs are allowed, and each API requires
a slightly different ``wpa_supplicant`` configuration, there are also two different services:
`wpa_supplicant@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant@.service>`_
triggered by the presence of network interface ``wlan0`` and
`wpa_supplicant_wext@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant_wext@.service>`_
triggered by the presence of network interface ``wlan0wext``.

The encryption/authentication configuration file is linked to the FAT partition
for easier user access. So it is enough to provide a proper ``wpa_supplicant.conf``
file on the FAT partition to enable wireless client mode.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -s /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf

This configuration file can be created using the `wpa_passphrase` tool can be used:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ wpa_passphrase <ssid> [passphrase] > /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

---------------------------
Wireless access point setup
---------------------------

WiFi access point functionality is provided by the `hostapd <https://w1.fi/hostapd/>`_ application.
Since the upstream version does not support the ``wireless extensions`` API, the application is not
installed as a Debian package, and is instead downloaded, patched, recompiled and installed.

The `hostapd@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/hostapd@.service>`_
is handling the start of the daemon. Hotplugging is achieved the same way as with
``wpa_supplicant@.service``.

To enable access point mode a configuration file `hostapd.conf <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/plain/hostapd/hostapd.conf>`_
must be placed on the FAT partition on the SD card, and the client mode configuration file ``wpa_supplicant.conf``
must be removed. Inside a shell on Red Pitaya this file is visible as ``/opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf``.

The next example ``hostapd.conf`` file is for the ``rtl871xdrv`` driver.

.. code-block:: none

   interface=wlan0wext
   ssid=<ssid>
   driver=rtl871xdrv
   hw_mode=g
   channel=6
   macaddr_acl=0
   auth_algs=1
   ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
   wpa=2
   wpa_passphrase=<passphrase>
   wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
   wpa_pairwise=TKIP
   rsn_pairwise=CCMP

This file must be edited to set the chosen ``<ssid>`` and ``<passphrase>``.
Other settings are for the currently most secure personal encryption.

If the configuration file is written for a device supported by a ``nl80211`` driver,
then the driver line should be ``driver=nl80211`` instead of ``driver=rtl871xdrv``.
The interface line must also be changed from ``interface=wlan0wext`` to ``interface=wlan0``.

.. code-block:: none

   interface=wlan0
   ssid=<ssid>
   driver=nl80211
   hw_mode=g
   channel=6
   macaddr_acl=0
   auth_algs=1
   ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
   wpa=2
   wpa_passphrase=<passphrase>
   wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
   wpa_pairwise=TKIP
   rsn_pairwise=CCMP

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wireless router
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In access point mode Red Pitaya behaves as a wireless router,
if the wired interface is connected to the local network.

In the wired network configuration file `/etc/systemd/network/wired.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wired.network>`_
there are two lines to enable IP forwarding and masquerading.

.. code-block:: none

   IPForward=yes
   IPMasquerade=yes

An iptables configuration `/etc/iptables/iptables.rules <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/iptables/iptables.rules>`_
is enbled by the iptables service `/etc/systemd/system/iptables.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/iptables.service>`_.

.. note:: This functionality combined with default passwords can be a serious security issue.
   And since it is not needed to provide advertized functionality, we might remove it in the future.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Supported USB WiFi adapters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our main target was a low cost USB adapter which also supports access point mode.
The Edimax EW-7811Un adapter is also commonly used on Raspberry PI.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ lsusb
     ID 7392:7811 Edimax Technology Co., Ltd EW-7811Un 802.11n Wireless Adapter [Realtek RTL8188CUS]

The kernel upstream driver for this chip is now working well, so a working
driver was copied from the Raspberry PI repository and applied as a patch.

Other WiFi USB devices might also be supported by upstream kernel drivers,
but there is no comprehensive list for now.

============
DNS Resolver
============

To enable the ``systemd`` integrated resolver, a symlink for ``/etc/resolv.conf`` must be created.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -sf /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf

It is also possible to add default DNS servers by adding them to ``*.network`` files.

.. code-block:: none

   nameserver=8.8.8.8
   nameserver=8.8.4.4

===========================
NTP (Network Time Protocol)
===========================

Instead of using the common ``ntpd`` the lightweight ``systemd-timesyncd``
`SNTP  <http://www.ntp.org/ntpfaq/NTP-s-def.htm#AEN1271>`_ client is used.
Since by default NTP servers are provided by DHCP, no additional configuration changes to
`timesyncd.conf <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/timesyncd.conf.html>`_ are needed.

To observe the status of time synchronization do.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ timedatectl status

To enable the service do.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # timedatectl set-ntp true

==========
SSH server
==========

The Open SSH server is installed and access to the root user is enabled.

At the end of the SD card Debian/Ubuntu image creation encryption certificates are removed.
They are again created on the first boot by `/etc/systemd/system/ssh-reconfigure.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/ssh-reconfigure.service>`_.
Due to this the first boot takes a bit longer.
This way the SSH encryption certificates are unique on each board.

=============================
Zero-configuration networking
=============================

------------------
Link-local address
------------------

``systemd-networkd`` can provide interfaces with `link-local addresses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Link-local_address>`_,
if this is enabled inside ``systemd.network`` files with the line ``LinkLocalAddressing=yes``.
All interfaces have this setting enabled, this way each active interface will
acquire an address in the reserved ``169.254.0.0/16`` address block.

--------
Zeroconf
--------

If the computer used to access the device supports zeroconf (Avahi/Bobjour) name resolving is also available.
Since there can be multiple devices on a single network they must be distinguished.
The last three segments of the Ethernet MAC number without semicolons
(as printed on the Ethernet connector on each device) is used
to generate the hostname, which is then used to generate a link name.
For example if the MAC address is ``00:26:32:f0:f1:f2`` then the shortened string ``shortMAC`` is ``f0f1f2``.

Hostname generation is done by `/etc/systemd/system/hostname-mac.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/hostname-mac.service>`_
which must run early during the boot process.

Each device can now be accessed using the URL ``http://rp-<shortMAC>.local``.

Similarly to get SSH access use.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ ssh root@rp-<shortMAC>.local

This service is a good alternative for our *Discovery* service provided on redpitaya.com servers.

`Avahi daemon <http://www.avahi.org>`_ is used to advertise specific services.
Three configuration files are provided.

* HTTP `/etc/avahi/services/bazaar.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/bazaar.service>`_
* SSH  `/etc/avahi/services/ssh.service    <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/ssh.service>`_
* SCPI `/etc/avahi/services/scpi.service   <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/scpi.service>`_

.. note:: This services were enabled just recently, so full extent of their usefulness is still unknown.

====================
``systemd`` services
====================

Services handling the described configuration are enabled with.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # enable systemd network related services
   systemctl enable systemd-networkd
   systemctl enable systemd-resolved
   systemctl enable systemd-timesyncd
   systemctl enable wpa_supplicant@wlan0.service
   systemctl enable wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.service
   systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0.service
   systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0wext.service
   systemctl enable wireless-mode-client.service
   systemctl enable wireless-mode-ap.service
   systemctl enable iptables.service
   #systemctl enable wpa_supplicant@wlan0.path
   #systemctl enable wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.path
   #systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0.path
   #systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0wext.path
   systemctl enable hostname-mac.service
   systemctl enable avahi-daemon.service
   
   # enable service for creating SSH keys on first boot
   systemctl enable ssh-reconfigure

***************
Wireless driver
***************

=============
Current setup
=============

Currently an `out of tree driver <../patches/rtl8192cu/>`_ is used to support devices based on the ``RTL8188CUS`` chip.
For example.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # lsusb
   Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0bda:8176 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. RTL8188CUS 802.11n WLAN Adapter
   Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

This driver supports client and access point modes, and is the most documented driver/device combination
for seeing up an access point using an USB adapter. Most of the documentation is intended for Raspberry Pi.

We would like to get rid of this driver, since it requires maintaining a patch,
and it requires deprecated user space tools ``wireless extensions`` and a
`patched hostapd <../OS/debian/network.sh>`_.

=====================
Proposed future setup
=====================

There is another much newer driver available in the kernel tree, but it currently only supports client mode.

We are following progress on the ``rtl8xxxu`` driver in the
`authors (Jes Sorensen)  <https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/jes/linux.git/>`_ repository
on `kernel.org <https://git.kernel.org/cgit/>`_.

We already tested this new driver in the past, and it worked well in client mode.

Commit message:

added notes linking to the network manager added picture for removing of heat sink removed resolved TODOs

doc/developerGuide/software/network.rst, after:

.. _network:

#######
Network 
#######

***********
Quick setup
***********

.. note:: A reboot is required to switch between access point and client modes.

.. note:: 
    
    In order to set wireless or direct Ethernet connection you need to access Red Pitaya STEMlab 
    :ref:`Console interface <console>`.

===========
WiFi client
===========

List wireless access pints:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # iwlist scan

Write a ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` configuration file to the FAT partition:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # rw
   $ wpa_passphrase <ssid> [passphrase] > /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

Restart wpa supplicant:

.. code-block:: shell-session

    # systemctl restart wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.service

=================
WiFi access point
=================

Write a `hostapd.conf <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/plain/hostapd/hostapd.conf>`_ configuration file to the FAT partition,
and remove the ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` client configuration file if exists:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # rw
   $ nano /opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf
   $ rm /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

Restart access point service:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # systemctl restart hostapd@wlan0wext.service

*********************
Network configuration
*********************

The current network configuration is using 
`systemd-networkd <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.network.html>`_ as the base. Almost all
network configuration details are done by the bash script 
`network.sh <https://github.com/RedPitaya/RedPitaya/blob/master/OS/debian/network.sh>`_ during the creation of the 
Debian/Ubuntu SD card image. The script installs networking related packages and copies network configuration files 
from the Git repository.

The decision to focus on ``systemd-networkd`` is arbitrary, while at the same time
focusing at a single approach centered around `systemd <https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/>`_
should minimize the efforts needed to maintain it.

Most of the WiFi configuration complexity comes from two sources:

    1. mixing WiFi drivers based on new `mac80211 <https://wireless.wiki.kernel.org/en/developers/documentation/mac80211>`_ API,
       and the old deprecated `wext <https://wireless.wiki.kernel.org/en/developers/documentation/wireless-extensions>`_ API,
       this also requires some duplication of user space tools
    2. support for switching between WiFi access point and client mode

====
UDEV
====

``systemd`` provides [predictable network interface names] using `UDEV <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/udev.html>`_ rules.
In our case the kernel names the USB WiFi adapter ``wlan0``, then ``UDEV`` rule ``/lib/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules``
renames it into ``enx{MAC}`` using the following rule:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # Use MAC based names for network interfaces which are directly or indirectly
   # on USB and have an universally administered (stable) MAC address (second bit
   # is 0).
   
   IMPORT{cmdline}="net.ifnames", ENV{net.ifnames}=="0", GOTO="usb_net_by_mac_end"
   PROGRAM="/bin/readlink /etc/udev/rules.d/80-net-setup-link.rules", RESULT=="/dev/null", GOTO="usb_net_by_mac_end"
   
   ACTION=="add", SUBSYSTEM=="net", SUBSYSTEMS=="usb", NAME=="", \
       ATTR{address}=="?[014589cd]:*", \
       IMPORT{builtin}="net_id", NAME="$env{ID_NET_NAME_MAC}"
   
   LABEL="usb_net_by_mac_end"

For a simple generic WiFi configuration it is preferred to have the same
interface name regardless of the used adapter. This is achieved by overriding
``UDEV`` rules with a modified rule file. The overriding is done by placing the
modified rule file into directory ``/etc/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules``.
Since the remaining rules in the file are not relevant on Red Pitaya, it is also
possible to deactivate the rule by creating a override file which links to ``/dev/null``.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -s /dev/null /etc/udev/rules.d/73-usb-net-by-mac.rules

For user space tools to be able to distinguish between adapters using old and new drivers,
adapeter interfaces using the ``rtl8192cu`` are renamed into ``wlan0wext`` while adapter
interfaces using other drivers keep the default name ``wlan0``. This is achieved using
`systemd.link  <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.link.html>`_ file
`/etc/systemd/network/10-wireless.link <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/10-wireless.link>`_.

===========
Wired setup
===========

The wired interface ``eth0`` configuration file `/etc/systemd/network/wired.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wired.network>`_
configures it to use DHCP.

In previous releases, where a `different DHCP client was used <http://linux.die.net/man/8/dhclient>`_,
it was possible to define a fixed lease, which would provide a fallback address
if DHCP fails. Using the ``systemd`` integrated DHCP client this is not possible,
instead a fixed address can be set, or Link Local addressing zeroconf can be
used (described later).

A static IP address can be chosen by modifying the configuration file. It is
also possible to have both a DHCP provided and a static address at the same time,
but this is not a good choice for the release default since it can cause IP address collisions.
A fixed IP address can be configured by adding the next lines to
`systemd.network  <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.network.html>`_ files.

.. code-block:: none

   [Network]
   Address=192.168.0.15/24
   Gateway=192.168.0.1

==============
Wireless setup
==============

The wireless interface ``wlan0`` configuration file is `/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network>`_.

To support two modes this file must be linked to either the client mode configuration
`/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.client <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.client>`_
or the access point configuration
`/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.ap <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wireless.network.ap>`_.
Switching between the two option is implemented by
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-ap.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-ap.service>`_
and
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-client.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless-mode-client.service>`_
which must be run early at boot before most other network related services are run.
If no wireless configuration file is available, then a third service
`/etc/systemd/system/wireless_adapter_up@.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wireless_adapter_up@.service>`_
will link ``wireless.network`` to client mode, and it will power up the adapter so that ``iwlist`` will work.

The choice of the interface is driven by the availability of access point ``/opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf``
and client ``/opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf`` configuration files.
If ``wpa_supplicant.conf`` is present, client mode configuration will be attempted,
regardless of the presence of ``hostapd.conf``.
If only ``hostapd.conf`` is present access point configuration will be attempted.
If no configuration file is present, WiFi will not be configured.

+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| file                  | comment                      |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| `wpa_supplicant.conf` | client configuration         |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+
| `hostapd.conf`        | access point configuration   |
+-----------------------+------------------------------+

---------------------
Wireless client setup
---------------------

Wireless networks almost universally use some king of encryption/authentication scheme for security.
This is handled by the tool `wpa_supplicant <https://w1.fi/wpa_supplicant/>`_.
The default network configuration option on
`Debian NetworkManager <https://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager>`_ /
`Ubuntu NetworkManager <https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager>`_
is `NetworkManager  <https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/NetworkManager>`_.
Sometimes it conflicts with the default ``systemd-networkd`` install, this seems to be one
of those cases. On `Debian <https://packages.debian.org/jessie/armhf/wpasupplicant/filelist>`_ / Ubuntu
a device `specific @.service <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/tree/wpa_supplicant/systemd/wpa_supplicant.service.arg.in>`_
service is missing, so we made a copy `copy of wpa_supplicant@.service <OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant@.service>`_
in our Git repository.

By default the service is installed as a dependency for ``multi-user.target``
which means it would delay ``multi-user.target`` if it could not start properly,
for example due to the USB WiFi adapter not being plugged in. At the same time
the service was not automatically started after the adapter was plugged into
Red Pitaya. The next change fixes both.

.. code-block:: shell-session

    [Install]
   -Alias=multi-user.target.wants/wpa_supplicant@%i.service
   +WantedBy=sys-subsystem-net-devices-%i.device

Since WiFi drivers using two different APIs are allowed, and each API requires
a slightly different ``wpa_supplicant`` configuration, there are also two different services:
`wpa_supplicant@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant@.service>`_
triggered by the presence of network interface ``wlan0`` and
`wpa_supplicant_wext@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant_wext@.service>`_
triggered by the presence of network interface ``wlan0wext``.

The encryption/authentication configuration file is linked to the FAT partition
for easier user access. So it is enough to provide a proper ``wpa_supplicant.conf``
file on the FAT partition to enable wireless client mode.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -s /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf

This configuration file can be created using the `wpa_passphrase` tool can be used:

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ wpa_passphrase <ssid> [passphrase] > /opt/redpitaya/wpa_supplicant.conf

---------------------------
Wireless access point setup
---------------------------

WiFi access point functionality is provided by the `hostapd <https://w1.fi/hostapd/>`_ application.
Since the upstream version does not support the ``wireless extensions`` API, the application is not
installed as a Debian package, and is instead downloaded, patched, recompiled and installed.

The `hostapd@.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/hostapd@.service>`_
is handling the start of the daemon. Hotplugging is achieved the same way as with
``wpa_supplicant@.service``.

To enable access point mode a configuration file `hostapd.conf <https://w1.fi/cgit/hostap/plain/hostapd/hostapd.conf>`_
must be placed on the FAT partition on the SD card, and the client mode configuration file ``wpa_supplicant.conf``
must be removed. Inside a shell on Red Pitaya this file is visible as ``/opt/redpitaya/hostapd.conf``.

The next example ``hostapd.conf`` file is for the ``rtl871xdrv`` driver.

.. code-block:: none

   interface=wlan0wext
   ssid=<ssid>
   driver=rtl871xdrv
   hw_mode=g
   channel=6
   macaddr_acl=0
   auth_algs=1
   ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
   wpa=2
   wpa_passphrase=<passphrase>
   wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
   wpa_pairwise=TKIP
   rsn_pairwise=CCMP

This file must be edited to set the chosen ``<ssid>`` and ``<passphrase>``.
Other settings are for the currently most secure personal encryption.

If the configuration file is written for a device supported by a ``nl80211`` driver,
then the driver line should be ``driver=nl80211`` instead of ``driver=rtl871xdrv``.
The interface line must also be changed from ``interface=wlan0wext`` to ``interface=wlan0``.

.. code-block:: none

   interface=wlan0
   ssid=<ssid>
   driver=nl80211
   hw_mode=g
   channel=6
   macaddr_acl=0
   auth_algs=1
   ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
   wpa=2
   wpa_passphrase=<passphrase>
   wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
   wpa_pairwise=TKIP
   rsn_pairwise=CCMP

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wireless router
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In access point mode Red Pitaya behaves as a wireless router,
if the wired interface is connected to the local network.

In the wired network configuration file `/etc/systemd/network/wired.network <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/network/wired.network>`_
there are two lines to enable IP forwarding and masquerading.

.. code-block:: none

   IPForward=yes
   IPMasquerade=yes

An iptables configuration `/etc/iptables/iptables.rules <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/iptables/iptables.rules>`_
is enbled by the iptables service `/etc/systemd/system/iptables.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/iptables.service>`_.

.. note:: This functionality combined with default passwords can be a serious security issue.
   And since it is not needed to provide advertized functionality, we might remove it in the future.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Supported USB WiFi adapters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Our main target was a low cost USB adapter which also supports access point mode.
The Edimax EW-7811Un adapter is also commonly used on Raspberry PI.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ lsusb
     ID 7392:7811 Edimax Technology Co., Ltd EW-7811Un 802.11n Wireless Adapter [Realtek RTL8188CUS]

The kernel upstream driver for this chip is now working well, so a working
driver was copied from the Raspberry PI repository and applied as a patch.

Other WiFi USB devices might also be supported by upstream kernel drivers,
but there is no comprehensive list for now.

============
DNS Resolver
============

To enable the ``systemd`` integrated resolver, a symlink for ``/etc/resolv.conf`` must be created.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # ln -sf /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf

It is also possible to add default DNS servers by adding them to ``*.network`` files.

.. code-block:: none

   nameserver=8.8.8.8
   nameserver=8.8.4.4

===========================
NTP (Network Time Protocol)
===========================

Instead of using the common ``ntpd`` the lightweight ``systemd-timesyncd``
`SNTP  <http://www.ntp.org/ntpfaq/NTP-s-def.htm#AEN1271>`_ client is used.
Since by default NTP servers are provided by DHCP, no additional configuration changes to
`timesyncd.conf <https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/timesyncd.conf.html>`_ are needed.

To observe the status of time synchronization do.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ timedatectl status

To enable the service do.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # timedatectl set-ntp true

==========
SSH server
==========

The Open SSH server is installed and access to the root user is enabled.

At the end of the SD card Debian/Ubuntu image creation encryption certificates are removed.
They are again created on the first boot by `/etc/systemd/system/ssh-reconfigure.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/ssh-reconfigure.service>`_.
Due to this the first boot takes a bit longer.
This way the SSH encryption certificates are unique on each board.

=============================
Zero-configuration networking
=============================

------------------
Link-local address
------------------

``systemd-networkd`` can provide interfaces with `link-local addresses <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Link-local_address>`_,
if this is enabled inside ``systemd.network`` files with the line ``LinkLocalAddressing=yes``.
All interfaces have this setting enabled, this way each active interface will
acquire an address in the reserved ``169.254.0.0/16`` address block.

--------
Zeroconf
--------

If the computer used to access the device supports zeroconf (Avahi/Bobjour) name resolving is also available.
Since there can be multiple devices on a single network they must be distinguished.
The last three segments of the Ethernet MAC number without semicolons
(as printed on the Ethernet connector on each device) is used
to generate the hostname, which is then used to generate a link name.
For example if the MAC address is ``00:26:32:f0:f1:f2`` then the shortened string ``shortMAC`` is ``f0f1f2``.

Hostname generation is done by `/etc/systemd/system/hostname-mac.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/systemd/system/hostname-mac.service>`_
which must run early during the boot process.

Each device can now be accessed using the URL ``http://rp-<shortMAC>.local``.

Similarly to get SSH access use.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   $ ssh root@rp-<shortMAC>.local

This service is a good alternative for our *Discovery* service provided on redpitaya.com servers.

`Avahi daemon <http://www.avahi.org>`_ is used to advertise specific services.
Three configuration files are provided.

* HTTP `/etc/avahi/services/bazaar.service <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/bazaar.service>`_
* SSH  `/etc/avahi/services/ssh.service    <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/ssh.service>`_
* SCPI `/etc/avahi/services/scpi.service   <../OS/debian/overlay/etc/avahi/services/scpi.service>`_

.. note:: This services were enabled just recently, so full extent of their usefulness is still unknown.

====================
``systemd`` services
====================

Services handling the described configuration are enabled with.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # enable systemd network related services
   systemctl enable systemd-networkd
   systemctl enable systemd-resolved
   systemctl enable systemd-timesyncd
   systemctl enable wpa_supplicant@wlan0.service
   systemctl enable wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.service
   systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0.service
   systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0wext.service
   systemctl enable wireless-mode-client.service
   systemctl enable wireless-mode-ap.service
   systemctl enable iptables.service
   #systemctl enable wpa_supplicant@wlan0.path
   #systemctl enable wpa_supplicant_wext@wlan0wext.path
   #systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0.path
   #systemctl enable hostapd@wlan0wext.path
   systemctl enable hostname-mac.service
   systemctl enable avahi-daemon.service
   
   # enable service for creating SSH keys on first boot
   systemctl enable ssh-reconfigure

***************
Wireless driver
***************

=============
Current setup
=============

Currently an `out of tree driver <../patches/rtl8192cu/>`_ is used to support devices based on the ``RTL8188CUS`` chip.
For example.

.. code-block:: shell-session

   # lsusb
   Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0bda:8176 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. RTL8188CUS 802.11n WLAN Adapter
   Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

This driver supports client and access point modes, and is the most documented driver/device combination
for seeing up an access point using an USB adapter. Most of the documentation is intended for Raspberry Pi.

We would like to get rid of this driver, since it requires maintaining a patch,
and it requires deprecated user space tools ``wireless extensions`` and a
`patched hostapd <../OS/debian/network.sh>`_.

=====================
Proposed future setup
=====================

There is another much newer driver available in the kernel tree, but it currently only supports client mode.

We are following progress on the ``rtl8xxxu`` driver in the
`authors (Jes Sorensen)  <https://git.kernel.org/cgit/linux/kernel/git/jes/linux.git/>`_ repository
on `kernel.org <https://git.kernel.org/cgit/>`_.

We already tested this new driver in the past, and it worked well in client mode.
