doc/quickStart/alucase/alucase.rst, before:

#################################
Red Pitaya Aluminum Case assembly
#################################

Regardless whether you bought your Red Pitaya aluminum case in a kit or as 
a separate add on, you will need to manually asembile it.

***************************************
Red Pitaya Aluminum Case assembly parts
***************************************

.. figure:: rp_alucase_02.jpg
    
    Red Pitaya Aluminum Case asembly parts.
    
It includes:

    - 4 screws that close the housing and hold the board
    - 4 rubber feet for secure positioning on the desk
    - a thermal pad (just barely be seen in the photo)
    - a transparent plastic rod, the light of red LED (Ready / CPU activity) guided to the top of the caseing

.. figure:: rp_alucase_03.jpg

    Interior of the Red Pitaya Aluminum Case.
    

On the Interior, there is a block located in the upper part of the housing (right)
which passes the heat to the housing, hence the entire case acts as a heat sink.

On the lower part there are fits to a few air vents (left).

Apertures in the case expose connections to the expansion ports **E1** and **E2**.

.. image:: rp_alucase_04.jpg
    :width: 49%

.. image:: rp_alucase_05.jpg
    :width: 49%
    
********
Assembly
********

1. Remove small plastic feet by pressing the clips at the top, with
   a small pair of pliers and push the feet down.
#. Repeat the prosedure with the heat sink pressing the clips together on the bottom
   and push the holder gently up.

#. The heat sink is still bonded with the FPGA, slightly turn the heat sink
   untill it comes loose.
   
.. figure:: rp_alucase_07.jpg

    Bottom of the Red Pitaya board showing the plastic feet.

.. figure:: rp_alucase_08.jpg
    
    Top of the Red Pitaya board showing the removed heat sink.

4. Remove the remainder of the thermal paste.

#. Place the Red Pitaya board into the bottom part of casing.

#. Turn the top part of the casing upside down and place the light guiding plastic.

#. Close it up with the bottom part of casing including the Red Pitaya board.
   Make sure that holes from the board and the caseing are aligned.

#. Screw the 4 screws.

#. Stick rubber feet.

.. image:: rp_alucase.jpg

Commit message:

added notes linking to the network manager added picture for removing of heat sink removed resolved TODOs

doc/quickStart/alucase/alucase.rst, after:

#################################
Red Pitaya Aluminum Case assembly
#################################

Regardless whether you bought your Red Pitaya aluminum case in a kit or as 
a separate add on, you will need to manually asembile it.

***************************************
Red Pitaya Aluminum Case assembly parts
***************************************

.. figure:: rp_alucase_02.jpg
    
    Red Pitaya Aluminum Case asembly parts.
    
It includes:

    - 4 screws that close the housing and hold the board
    - 4 rubber feet for secure positioning on the desk
    - a thermal pad (just barely be seen in the photo)
    - a transparent plastic rod, the light of red LED (Ready / CPU activity) guided to the top of the caseing

.. figure:: rp_alucase_03.jpg

    Interior of the Red Pitaya Aluminum Case.
    

On the Interior, there is a block located in the upper part of the housing (right)
which passes the heat to the housing, hence the entire case acts as a heat sink.

On the lower part there are fits to a few air vents (left).

Apertures in the case expose connections to the expansion ports **E1** and **E2**.

.. image:: rp_alucase_04.jpg
    :width: 49%

.. image:: rp_alucase_05.jpg
    :width: 49%
    
********
Assembly
********

1. Remove small plastic feet by pressing the clips at the top, with
   a small pair of pliers and push the feet down.
   
.. figure:: rp_alucase_07.jpg

    Bottom of the Red Pitaya board showing the plastic feet.

#. For STEMlab_14 repeat the procedure with the heat sink by pressing the clips together on the bottom
   and push the holder gently up.
   
#. The heat sink is still bonded with the FPGA, slightly turn the heat sink, as shown in
   the picture below, until it comes loose.
   
.. image:: STEMlab_10_heatsink.png

.. figure:: rp_alucase_08.jpg
    
    Top of the Red Pitaya board showing the removed heat sink.

4. Remove the remainder of the thermal paste.

#. Place the Red Pitaya board into the bottom part of casing.

#. Turn the top part of the casing upside down and place the light guiding plastic.

#. Close it up with the bottom part of casing including the Red Pitaya board.
   Make sure that holes from the board and the caseing are aligned.

#. Screw the 4 screws.

#. Stick rubber feet.

.. image:: rp_alucase.jpg
