doc/quickStart/first.rst, before:

##################
Connect to STEMlab
##################

This is the most common and recommended way of
connecting and using your Red Pitaya STEMLab boards.
Your LAN network needs to have DHCP settings enabled
which is the case in majority of the local networks.
With this, simple *plug and play* approach is enabled.
Having STEMLab board connected the local network
will enable quick access to all Red Pitaya applications
using only your web browser.
Simply follow this 3 simple steps:

#. Connect STEMlab board to the router
#. Connect power supply to the Red Pitaya STEMlab board
#. Open your web browser and in the URL filed type ``rp-xxxxxx.local/``
       
.. note::

   ``xxxxxx`` are the last 6 characters from MAC address of your STEMlab board.
   MAC address is written on the Ethernet connector.
    
.. figure:: connect/connect-2.png
    
   Figure 1: Connecting your STEMlab board to the LAN network.

After the **third step** you will get a Red Pitaya STEMlab main page as shown below.

.. figure:: connect/connect-3.png

   Figure 2: STEMlab main page user interface.

.. note::

    For any issues during setup, check :ref:`troubleshoots <troubleshooting>`
    or check the `forum <http://forum.redpitaya.com/>`_ for a solution.
    If you cannot find a solution, please post your problem, providing as much detail as possible.

Commit message:

added notes linking to the network manager added picture for removing of heat sink removed resolved TODOs

doc/quickStart/first.rst, after:

.. _ConnectSTEMlab:

##################
Connect to STEMlab
##################

This is the most common and recommended way of
connecting and using your Red Pitaya STEMLab boards.
Your LAN network needs to have DHCP settings enabled
which is the case in majority of the local networks.
With this, simple *plug and play* approach is enabled.
Having STEMLab board connected the local network
will enable quick access to all Red Pitaya applications
using only your web browser.
Simply follow this 3 simple steps:

#. Connect STEMlab board to the router
#. Connect power supply to the Red Pitaya STEMlab board
#. Open your web browser and in the URL filed type ``rp-xxxxxx.local/``

.. note:: 

    For arranging other types of connections (wireless, direct ethernet connection) use the  
    :ref:`Network manager application <networkManager>`.
       
.. note::

   ``xxxxxx`` are the last 6 characters from MAC address of your STEMlab board.
   MAC address is written on the Ethernet connector.
    
.. figure:: connect/connect-2.png
    
   Figure 1: Connecting your STEMlab board to the LAN network.

After the **third step** you will get a Red Pitaya STEMlab main page as shown below.

.. figure:: connect/connect-3.png

   Figure 2: STEMlab main page user interface.

.. note::

    For any issues during setup, check :ref:`troubleshoots <troubleshooting>`
    or check the `forum <http://forum.redpitaya.com/>`_ for a solution.
    If you cannot find a solution, please post your problem, providing as much detail as possible.
